My name is Duncan Dixon.
I'm the technology teacher
at Marshview Middle School.
What I'm here to talk about today
is that is how I bring my personal
passions, into my workplace
and into my classroom and
and in front of my students and,
I have some odd passions that I would say
that they're outside of the norm,
but I really like disc golf.
And I do do that
with an engaged group of students.
I've taught disc golf several times.
And air cooled Volkswagens.
I've been obsessed with them for 40
years, and, I can't get enough of it, so.
And that's the particular example that,
I want to talk to you about today.
It's just I had a student in my class
that that doesn't read.
And I don't teach. I don't teach English.
I'm just teaching technology,
but he's in my homeroom class
and in my advisory class, and,
we had done a literacy,
block and advisory,
and I just noticed that he never read.
He fake read really well.
But he had no no interest, no ability,
no passion for reading, and just didn't
really see anything for him.
But he's a hands on.
Guys have my tech class.
He likes to build stuff
he likes, takes off apart.
So I thought, hey, what about Volkswagens?
I love Volkswagens that I can show.
You know, share my passion with him.
So I brought in a book, written
by Prescott Phillips,
and suggested
how to rebuild an air cooled motor.
And it's really easy to rebuild
an air cooled motor.
You don't have to be a mechanic.
You don't do anything.
You just have to follow the steps.
So I bought him in this book
and introduced it to him
and said, hey, maybe you could read this,
you know, or just start looking at this
at least has lots of pictures in it,
you know?
But it does
have a lot of technical language
that he would have to figure out
and look up and things like that.
So a great introduction into reading.
If you're not passionate about reading.
We got permission from a XLA teacher
that that could be his book
for the major project
that they were doing this year,
which was lit on,
basically a science fair for books.
And he was really nervous about it
because he had never read a book,
you know, had and didn't really have
any plans on reading one at this point.
But he really enjoyed this book.
So we started just by him, you know,
scanning through it, looking through it,
looking at the pictures, seeing what,
you know, what was it was all about.
And then creating things
like the list of tools,
because there's a whole
first chapter is just
these are the tools
you need, in order to do this.
So he created his own personal list,
and I told him if he got into it enough
that maybe I could bring in a motor
next year and,
you know, for an engage project
or something, a bunch of us
could try to rebuild this motor.
And he that excited him
a little bit more even, you know,
but I said he'd have to read the book
first.
You know, it's no good to me
if he hasn't read the book.
So, And then he started reading the book.
And I
would bring in other Volkswagen books
because of course, being a Volkswagen
fanatic, I have 50 Volkswagen books.
I would just bring them in when we were
doing a reading block and advisory,
and I'd read that one
and he'd come over and see that book
and realize, hey, there's
more than one of these type of books.
And he'd, you know, flip through
and he find little bits and read it and,
you know,
showed a lot of interest in them.
So he's you know, he's looking at it
saying, hey, there's lots of books
in this series of books.
And just all the normal things
that the kids who love to read.
They pick books based on.
Are there six of them in this series?
Like, you know, I love this one.
Is there more?
And he's seeing that, you know, again,
I don't care if he likes Volkswagens.
You know,
he could be a Chevy guy or anything,
but maybe we have to start looking
as teachers and educators that
not everybody's going to read Shakespeare,
but everybody can read and can.
And it's just as valuable
to read a technical manual or a
how to book than it is any other book.
Right?
readings, reading,
you know, like,
I mean, there's a lot of educators
who can't change the oil
their own car, you know,
but they're somehow up here, you know?
So but the kid who knows, it's amazing.
You know,
and so he did a the Lincoln Project, and,
I mean, now, this isn't
the best of the Litecoin projects,
but for this particular student,
this is unreal.
Like, this is unheard of.
He would never have done this.
And, you know, I mean, he
he may not be an artist.
I'm going to drop my mic here.
May not be an artist
and and all those things.
And he's got a ways to go.
But but he's got all the information
he needed to he, he read the book.
He watched podcast of the author
talking about the book.
He had lots of other, other things
that stemmed from it, which, again,
readers, do you want more information?
You want to know more about this person
and the party struggling with the most,
really, was the bio of the author,
because the author is not an author.
He's a mechanic who was tired of
not having a perfect book.
So he wrote it.
And, but he did it and he presented it.
And I don't know, just when I see that
it was such a big win
over the super literate kid who,
you know, has read 50 books by now
and can just present something beautiful.
I think that's wonderful. That's amazing.
This is more impressive to me,
you know, that this kid who's never read
managed to read a book and do this,
and now he's, you know, we're because I'm
looking for a motor right now.
I'm trying to
so we can come in and build it next year.
And it'll be fun. So.
And he'll be a good asset because.
And there's actually another kid
who's now reading the book based on this.
Good thing
you got to read this, you know, so
being able to you can recommend a book
to somebody that the feels good.
You know.
So anyway I that it's one small example
about how personal passions
can can really work into
you know, what we do every day.
I mean, in the woodshop,
I do the same in the cooking.
We do the same. I'm passionate
about all those things.
But when you get something
that you're really passionate about,
you can always find a way to bring it
in, you know?
So it's it's been really fun project.